USA Volleyball’s response to COVID-19 and guidelines toward Return to Play.
USA Volleyball’s response to COVID-19 and guidelines toward Return to Play.
Senior
Junior
Collegiate
Athletes
Resources for
Follow USAVolleyball
Mar 05, 2021
Feb 23, 2021
Feb 18, 2021
July 23 - Aug 08, 2021
Tokyo, Japan
Beach Event, International Events, National Team Events
March 6-8, 2021 and March 12-14, 2021

                                                United States                                            

                                                Girls Qualifiers                                            
March 8-12, 2021

                                                Qatar                                            

                                                Beach Event, International Events                                            
March 13-15, 2021

                                                United States                                            

                                                Girls Qualifiers                                            
Your Path to the Podium
Young volleyball athletes who want to take the next step on their path to the podium can now be part of the new USA Volleyball National Team Development Program (NTDP).
Launching this year, the NTDP will fully replace the USA Volleyball High Performance program. Since the 1990s, USAV High Performance has identified, evaluated, trained and developed young athletes to build a sustainable pipeline of future Olympians and Paralympians.
The NTDP will increase the opportunities for athletes to be seen and evaluated and to develop within the USA Volleyball National Team system.
Improve Your Game
U.S. Men’s National Team libero Erik Shoji gives you advice that will help throughout your career: it’s OK to ask for help. Our USAVlearn section has tips from other National Team athletes such as Jordan Larson, Jake Gibb and Rachael Adams.
USAVlearn also offers educational videos on topics ranging from coaching to defensive schemes to officiating, with presenters including Karch Kiraly, Erin Virtue, Keegan Cook and Tama Miayashiro.
U.S. Women's Sitting National Team

                                                                Paralympic gold medalist Nicky Nieves has a new accomplishment on her bio: she's recently been named as the sitting athlete representative on the USA Volleyball Board of Directors. Follow Nicky as she works toward the Tokyo Paralympics.
U.S. Men's National Team

                                                                Outside hitter Thomas Jaeschke scored 18 points on 17 kills and one ace as his Italian team NBV Verona opened the new year with a 3-1 defeat of Allianz Milano.
U.S. Women's National Team

                                                                Outside hitter Jordan Larson finished 2020 with the bronze medal from the Chinese women’s league. Larson and Shanghai Guangming Youbei beat Guangdong Evergrande two matches to zero to take third. 
Be Your Best
There’s nothing like the feeling of being part of a team. Whether you win or lose, you’ll never forget the friendships forged while playing volleyball. Find a team or a club near you, and create lasting bonds with teammates on and and off the court.
USA Volleyball offers competition in:
©2020 United States Volleyball. All Rights Reserved.