The Volleyball Hall of Fame in Holyoke, Massachusetts, opened to the public in 1987.



Suitable for all ages, volleyball is a year-round sport. The game was invented in 1895 by William G. Morgan of the YMCA in Holyoke, Massachusetts. In 1916 rules were issued by the YMCA and the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). The United States Volleyball Association (USVBA) was formed in 1928 and is the sport’s national governing body. The Fédération Internationale de Volley Ball (FIVB) oversees the sport internationally. Volleyball became an Olympic event in 1964.



Beach volleyball—usually played, as its name implies, on a sand court with two players per team—was introduced in California in 1930. The first official beach volleyball tournament was held in 1948 at Will Rogers State Beach, in Santa Monica, California, and the first FIVB-sanctioned world championship was held in 1986 at Rio de Janeiro. Beach volleyball was added to the roster of the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta, Georgia.


Across the middle of the about 30- by 60-foot court is a 39-inch-wide net, the top of which is about 8 feet above the ground for men (7 feet 4 1/8 inches for women). The inflated, leather-covered ball is about 26 inches in circumference and weighs no more than 10 ounces. Each team is made up of six players, who, while volleying the ball over the net, try to make the ball touch the court within the opponents’ playing area before it can be returned.
  World Volleyball Championships
Serves are made underhand or overhand with an open hand or fist. Players may volley the ball with any part of the body above the waist as long as the ball is clearly hit and not held. Following the serve each team may hit the ball up to three times before sending it back over the net. The serving team scores a point if the opponents fail to return the ball or if they hit it out of bounds; if the serving team fails to return the ball, it loses the serve. A winning score is at least 15 points, with at least a 2-point lead.  

                We’ve been busy, working hard to bring you new features and an updated design.  We hope you and your family enjoy the NEW Britannica Kids. Take a minute to check out all the enhancements!
            
To share with more than one person, separate addresses with a comma
Choose a language from the menu above to view a computer-translated version of this page. Please note: Text within images is not translated, some features may not work properly after translation, and the translation may not accurately convey the intended meaning. Britannica does not review the converted text.

After translating an article, all tools except font up/font down will be disabled. To re-enable the tools or to convert back to English, click "view original" on the Google Translate toolbar.
