 
Check  out the VIDEOS to see what Volleyball Vacations are all about!Click Here!
Testimonials
Click here for video footage


In the News
Karch, Fonoi give fansone last thrillAVP.COM 07/7/07
Pictures from 2007 AVP Seaside Heights Open

Al-B creating new beach vacationsAVP.COM 06/20/07

Cousins stay true to rootsAVP.COM 04/24/07

Fan favorite Hannemannis backAVP.COM 04/21/07


Use the logo above to link to our Web site.




 





TURKS AND CAICOS  FALL TRIP
October 27 - November 3, 2007
 

Number one player in the world and AVP TourPHIL DALHAUSSERjoins Volleyball Vacations forTurks and Caicos trip



Pros Announced...
Jason Ring, Michelle More, Aaron Wachtfogel, Janelle Ruen, Anthony Medel, Angela Lewis, Ty Loomis, Jenelle Koester, Mark Williams and Jen Snyder. 

After great success with both the Cancun trip and the Western Caribbean Cruise, Volleyball Vacations and VOBE events have decided to rent out the entire village at the Turks and Caicos Islands on October 27-November 3, 2007. Volleyball Vacations will continue to limit the size of the group to ensure an intimate experience and continue to do what we do best. We are launching  "Ultimate Sports Vacations" which will follow the model of volleyball vacations. We will be bringing other sports, professional athletes and celebrities to provide instruction and entertainment in each of their respective fields. Hundreds of athletic like minded people will join together to share their love and passion for their sport and have the time of their lives. 
  

We will offer amazing volleyball training, tournaments, clinics, play with and against the pros. You can also take advantage of video analysis to improve your technique, certified nutritionists, massage therapists and fitness experts that will be available on site.  
  

In addition to club meds entertainment schedule we will have musicians, bands and comedians to liven up the night life. Our DJs and theme parties along with our Halloween Bash is going to blow you away. 
  

This is the most unique volleyball vacations trip ever offered so take advantage of this now because we are only holding a limited number of spots. This trip is available exclusively VOBE at (877) 248-VOBE (8623) or email terrie@vobe.ca. 




AVP volleyball training weekend
    

Your perfect weekend! Join top AVP Pro AL-B Hannemann for clinics, open play with him and parties to remember. Nowhere can you get your sports fix like you can at Club Getaway. AL-B will be running you through the work outs and drills that he and the rest of the AVP pros do to compete at the highest level. This weekend is for people that love the sport and are looking to improve their game and fitness level while enjoying this beautiful resort. This clinic is not available to everyone in the resort but only for people that book the volleyball package individually. This will keep the group at a higher level and everyone will get a lot more out of the training, clinics and competition. 
Call 877-7-GO- PLAY for all booking and pricing information. 
   

EARLY BOOKING SPECIAL
    

Book the volleyball package by August 19 and receive a Volleyball Vacations T-shirt, a $20 bar book, a bottle of Barefoot Wine, a goodie bag and a signed official AVP Wilson Volleyball to take home with you. I have NEVER offered this to any group before but club getaway loves the volleyball group so we are going all out for this weekend. 
  




 
We just got back from another fantastic Volleyball Vacations trip. The weather was perfect and the volleyball was amazing. Memories and lifetime friendships were made that will never be forgotten. It was a great seeing how people can be from different places around the world and still share the same passion for life and volleyball. 
 

Here is what a few people had to say about their experience...
 

Kelly Taylor from NY, NY wrote "I have been going on these trips for years and somehow they get better every time. I don't know how these guys do it but they continue to bring in the top pros like AL-B Hannemann, Michelle More, Suzanne Stonebarger and the legendary Sinjin Smith. These pros are so approachable and personable that they made it easy to play and party with them all week. My friends in NY are anxiously awaiting the next trip."
 

"I just wanted to thank you again for making this trip our best vacation ever.  Jenn even said that it was better than our Honeymoon.  I just got done telling all my Vball friends about it and they are all jealous of the excellent time we had. They all want to go with us next time. Jenn and I are looking forward to applying what we learned on the court ASAP. "
Eric and Jennifer Fagin~ Philadelphia, PA. 
 

AVP fan favorite Michelle More said," I had no idea that there are so many people out there that love the sport as much as we do. Suzanne and I can't wait to see everybody we met and became friends with at volleyball vacations on the AVP tour this summer and for the rest of our careers." 
 

"I was just telling AL-B what an awesome trip this was and that I have never felt more welcomed by a group of strangers before in my life.  And you know how nervous I was before this trip...wow...that's all I have to say.  This group knows how to play some good ball and party.  I have had many great vacations but I must say that this has topped them all." Sandy Kwon~ Vancouver, British Columbia



 
GOLD MEDAL CONTEST


CANCUN VIDEOS Check out these videos from the February 2007 Cancun tripSinjin Smith and Team Gorgeous


Check out these videos from the February 2007 Cancun trip
Sinjin Smith and Team Gorgeous
FUTURE TRIPS
AL-B interview about future VBV trips AL-B VBV interview
 Turks  & CaicosOct. 27th - Nov. 3rd, 2007
 Club Getaway Resort Volleyball Clinic in Kent ConnecticutOctober 5th - 7th, 2007Club Getaway Clinic Info
 Cayman IslandsGetting set for 2008
RECENT TRIPS
 VBV Cruise to the Western Caribbean Feb. 11-18th, 2007 
 CaliforniaJuly 20th - 27th, 2007
Sponsor
Reggae One is a Proud Sponsor of Volleyball Vacations and AVP Pro Beach 
          Volleyball Champion, Albert Hannemann.
Reggae One is a Proud Sponsor of Volleyball Vacations and AVP Pro Beach 
          Volleyball Champion, Albert Hannemann.
® copyright  2007 Volleyball Vacations | site services provided by Volleyball.Com
 