Volleyball is a team sport in which players use their hands or arms to knock a ball over a net.
Two teams, usually with six players each, compete in a volleyball game.
Volleyball can be played inside, in a gym, or outside, on a beach or in a park.
Volleyball is played on a court that is 30 feet (9 meters) wide by 60 feet (18 meters) long.
A center line divides the court into two equal areas.
A net runs along the center line.
Each team defends one side of the net.
A volleyball is filled with air and weighs 9 to 10 ounces (260 to 280 grams).
Play begins when one player serves.
A player serves by hitting the ball over to the receiving team’s side of the net.
The receiving team tries to return the serve, or hit the ball back over the net.
The receiving team can return the serve with a single hit.
More often, though, the receiving team tries to set the ball.
To do this, players hit the ball into the air on their own side of the net.
A good set allows a teammate to drive the ball over the net with great force.
This makes it harder for the other team to hit it back.
The teams hit the ball back and forth over the net until one team scores a point.
A team scores a point when it lands the ball on the floor inside the other team’s playing area.
A team also scores a point if the other team hits the ball out of bounds or makes some other error.
Scoring 15 points wins a game.
A team has to win by at least two points.
William G. Morgan invented the game of volleyball in 1895 at the Young Men’s Christian Association (YMCA) in Holyoke, Massachusetts.
It quickly became popular in schools and on playgrounds throughout the United States.
In the early 1900s the sport spread throughout the rest of the world.
In 1947 an  organization called the Fédération Internationale de Volleyball (FIVB) was formed to govern the sport worldwide.
In 1964 volleyball became a sport for both men and women in the Summer Olympics.
Today the FIVB sponsors several other international tournaments as well.
The Volleyball Hall of Fame in Holyoke, Massachusetts, opened to the public in 1987.